==Enabling 8000, 11025, 16000, 22050, 32000, 88200, 96000, 176400, and 192000 Hz sample rates on _ALL_ C-MEDIA 8770 sound cards==

An awesome little work-around that I discovered after reverse-engineering the Windows drivers for the C-Media 8770... Currently, the HT Omega Striker 7.1 and all other 8770 chipset based sound cards only support 16-bit/44100 and 16-bit/48000 in Windows 7 and Vista. If you need or want 16/192000 or 16/96000 (or many others) then here's how!

===Developer's notes===

(1) This is a Windows 7 hack and will not help Linux users achieve better (higher) sample rates.

(2) This currently breaks surround sound playback. True surround sound and 2-channel to 5.1 or 7.1 does not work. I am hoping to fix this issue, or get the manufacturer to do so. It would be great to have this feature added to the official drivers. See note below.

(3) I honestly have no idea why C-Media and HT Omega left out all the other sample rates when they work fine. I am hoping to try and reason with them. It was a real pain getting past WHQL..

(4) 44100 and 48000 Hz will still work and will not be broken or replaced by other sample rates. Only depreciated ;)

(5) I just realized this but I should point this out to you. I am on Windows 7 x86_64 and this .sys file might not work for 32-bit systems. It probably won't for 32-bit users so it is recommended you do _NOT_ proceed _IF_ you have a 32-bit system. I do not use 32-bit releases of Windows as it is slow enough as it is (at least compared to sane operating systems like GNU/Linux) and therefor this HOWTO has not been tested for 32-bit users, nor will it be (at least not by myself.)

(6) After further testing, the equalizer within HsMgr (Xear3D audio control panel) does not work either, and neither does S/PDIF from the looks of it. Talk about a crude hack.. My apologies. My assembly programming skills do need work as you can see.

(7) After an attempt to open some of the 64-bit files in PE Explorer 1.99, 64-bit file support will be added in 2.00 so in the meantime, it will be more difficult reverse-engineering the file until PE Explorer 2.00 is released. PE Explorer is actually a very helpful tool, and will make this project of mine a lot easier, and I should be able to smooth out all, if not most, of the things I broke. Again, I apologize for this very crude hack, and I plan on fixing these problems myself. For my own personal use and interest, I have made it my priority to unlock the features that the C-Media 8770 chipset is capable of, but not supported by the software. HT Omega's Claro II sound card is very tempting, but I rather unlock the full potential of my Striker 7.1, and also save money.



===HOWTO===

First, make sure you completely uninstall the driver for your sound card:

Control Panel > Uninstall a program > C-Media PCI Audio Device or HT Omega Striker 7.1 (Don't reboot)

Control Panel > Hardware and Sound > Device Manager > Right click on sound card > Uninstall > Check box that says "Delete the driver software for this device"

Reboot.

Now download the latest C-Media driver. The latest version is 8.17.42 (Provided exclusively by HT Omega) however there is very little difference (if any, from what I can see) between 8.17.42 and 8.17.40.

After installation, don't reboot. Download my cmudax3.sys file here:

http://neo-technical.googlecode.com/files/cmudax3.zip

Copy the cmudax3.sys file to C:\Windows\System32\drivers

Restart.

To select your sample rates, please do not use the Xear3D control panel as this is now bugged (for now.) Instead, right click on the Speaker icon at the bottom left, select "Playback devices" and Highlight your C-Media 8770 sound card / HTO STRIKER 7.1. Go to "Properties" > "Advanced"  and now select your sample rate. For highest quality, select "16 bit, 192000 Hz (Studio Quality)" or "16 bit, 96000 Hz (Studio Quality.)

Tip: After selecting "Playback devices" you can highlight your device, press configure, click "next" and check the box for "Full-range speakers." This can increase audio quality as well. Currently only stereo audio is supported.

Hit apply, and OK.

Enjoy all the sample rates that C-Media and HT Omega don't want you to have!