=Unlock all available content in DiRT 3=

==What this does not do==

This "database restriction" hack is _*NOT*_ to be used to unlock additional DLCs that you did not pay for. This modification to the database_restrictions.xml will not unlock any DLCs (Downloadable Content) that you did not pay for, even though they will show up in the main menu. Cars that were previously invisible in the main menu will not be available to drive.

==What this does do==

This modification to the database_restrictions.xml file will simply unlock all content within game, but not content that must be bought separately. For example, the SCION tC will show up in the main menu, but this vehicle is not included within the game data, therefor upon selection, the game will freeze because the game data for the SCION tC is non-existent. Other vehicles like the HUMMER H3 will be unlocked, as it is included in the game, but not available by default. Cars that show up and have a message under them saying "This car must be purchased from the XBOX Live Marketplace" will be available. _*ALL*_ cars will be available in the menu selection screen, and you will be able to _*VIEW*_ all possible content for DiRT 3, however not every single vehicle will work, unless that content has been purchased or included within the game.

==TODO==

_*FIXED:_* This modification does not work with ACAT (Any Car Any Track) Version 4 (possibly others.) I am working on a fix for this, but will most likely require a new download.

==Massively unlocking DiRT 3==

1.) Download my database_restrictions.xml file here:

http://neo-technical.googlecode.com/files/database_restrictions.xml

If you use ACAT, use this file instead:

http://neo-technical.googlecode.com/files/database_restrictions_acat.xml

Please note: Be sure to rename "database_restrictions_acat.xml" to "database_restrictions.xml" if you use ACAT.

You may download ACAT v4 from here:

http://www.mediafire.com/download.php?y6jvyyv33260vd7

If you would like to use this with ACAT v4, be sure to install ACAT v4 before proceeding and copying over files, if you have not already installed ACAT v4.

2.) Create a folder in C:\Users\<Your User> and back-up the database_restrictions.xml file located in C:\Program Files (x86)\Codemasters\DiRT 3\database

Please note: Your DiRT 3 installation directory may vary

3.) Copy the newly downloaded database_restrictions.xml file to your DiRT 3 installation directory, within the "database" folder.

4.) Upon launching DiRT 3, it will ask if you would like to activate "TEAMS AND CARS UNLOCK PACK" now. Selecting "Yes" will unlock all content included in DiRT 3 such as the HUMMER H3, and many others. Selecting the SATURN SKY and SCION tC Gymkhana vehicles (some others as well) will freeze the game unless of course you bought them.

Happy racing! And since when did modifying XML files ever hurt anybody?