=This page is for my friends=


==For Nicki==

===Adobe===

Please note: I haven't touch a Mac in years so I cannot provide everything in deep detail. Following the on-screen instructions is generally what's going on here.


First, clean all previous installs of Adobe software.

The uninstaller is located in Applications/Utilities/Adobe Installers.

After uninstalling the Adobe suite, close all applications and restart your computer.

Download the clean-up utility provided by Adobe here:

http://download.macromedia.com/pub/creativesuite/cleanertool/mac/AdobeCreativeSuiteCleanerTool.dmg

Double-click the .dmg file and it will mount the AdobeCreativeSuiteCleanerTool.dmg file. It will be mounted in the name of "Adobe Creative Suite Cleaner Tool".

Accept the license agreement when prompted.

Select CS5-CS5.5 to be removed, or if the option of "Clean all" is provided, select that. The idea is to purge as much as possible from the system to ensure a clean installation of CS6.

==For Kathryn==

===Blocking access to muohio.edu===

{{{
127.0.0.1	localhost
::1		localhost

127.0.0.1 miami.muohio.edu www.miami.muohio.edu
127.0.0.1 bannerweb.muohio.edu www.bannerweb.muohio.edu
}}}

Every time the file is modified, run this:

{{{
dscacheutil -flushcache
}}}

To unblock, just put a # sign as the first character, before the line starts. For example:

{{{
#127.0.0.1 stuff here
}}}

The # sign is a comment, it is not a recognized part of the file, this being said, anything can go after the # sign.

{{{
#howdy

127.0.0.1	localhost
::1		localhost
#winning
127.0.0.1 miami.muohio.edu www.miami.muohio.edu
127.0.0.1 bannerweb.muohio.edu www.bannerweb.muohio.edu

#i beat you#l00l

#1337.1337.lol_lol.LOL.LOL.COM LOLOLOL.NET
}}}

Keep in mind that the syntax for comments may change depending on what file you are editing. Generally regular text files use # for comments.